geuis commented i ran into the same issues and finally figured a solution . when you are passing the object into typeahead (), nothing is changed if you don 't also pass in duplicates of all the other properties and functions that are expected . luckily there 's a better way . access the typeahead input 's data attribute and modify the source array directly . e .g: var autocomplete = $('input').typeahead(); autocomplete .data('typeahead').source = newsource ; //where newsource is your own array i just finished writing some code that will let me use remote data querying on the typeahead module . https ://gist.github.com/1848558 one issue i found is that due to how typeahead is written , after you modify the source array the results don 't get picked up till the next keystroke . in the gist above , i got around this by setting the source to [] before doing my xhr request , setting it in the callback function with the results , then triggering a keyup event on the input element again . typeahead does technically trigger 2x , but since the initial source array is 0 length it doesn 't do any lookups . i also had to add an active status that prevents an endless loop of xhr requests due to the 2x keyup events .

rubic0n commented wow .. i wasted 5 hours of my life before i found this post .. thanks @geuis for your solution ..

geuis commented is this issue still active ? i thought the data source issue would have been addressed by now and my little hack made obsolete .

satgi commented thank you so much ,i've spent almost 2 to 3 hours working on this problem .

alepee commented @geuis i tried your method by store input .typeahead() object into a variable and it works like a charm ! thank you :)

fat commented yeah , we need to make this more extensible for sure . we 'll be revisting the data source soon . thanks for the feedback !

scotterc commented @geuis still really useful code for eliminating duplicates even when using typeahead 's newest methods . thank you !

paulbarbu commented thank you !

zda commented this doesn 't actually work for me “ i get typeerror : cannot read property 'name' of undefined every time i try var autocomplete = $('input').typeahead();. $('input') itself is as expected , but and has a working typeahead in the ui , but .typeahead() still returns an error . this happening to anyone else ?

zda commented ps “ you can reproduce this error on the typeahead .js website itself : http ://twitter.github.io/typeahead.js/examples/ > $('.example-countries .typeahead').typeahead(); => typeerror : cannot read property 'name' of undefined

