artemist commented ok , it sounds like the best way to do this then is to switch from classname to class attribute . a cursory look tells me that most of the references to this are in the attributes /classes.js file - would that be correct ? i 'll try not to let svg support snowball all at once into a huge problem for you guys :)

caitp commented on topic : -1, just like in case of the shadow dom , support of the svg will decrease the performance increase the size and complicate the code @markelog we 've found that this is actually not the case . using the classname idl attribute , or the setattribute /getattribute methods , are identical work for a vm to do . in fact , the classname property merely reflects the attribute (although the reflection works differently for svg ). --- or as this is noted non -normatively in the html spec , "the classname and classlist idl attributes , defined in the dom specification , reflect the class content attribute .". now , people might ask for "please use createelementns () depending on context " or something , which could incur performance /complexity costs , but the class api issue is pretty easy to fix , just a series of 1 line changes to swap classname for get /setattribute (and adding svg cases for the class api tests ).

artemist commented detecting hasclass , or adding /removing classes would be a hugely helpful ux interaction boon . yes , i know raphael and snap .svg. but let 's say you 're using a different animation library . to then add snap just to look for classes or add performant click events (particularly if you 're already loading jquery ) feels painful if not redundant . i realize this request might be too large and out of scope , and yes , svg isn 't html , but if there 's a possibility jquery could add this feature , it 's worth a discussion . everyday usage of svg on the web is fast -growing. adding this kind of support has the potential for a large payoff for the community .

dmethvin commented what exactly would you like to see added ? have you looked at libraries like raphael that are designed to support svg ? keep in mind that svg is not html , despite the fact that they look similar when represented as strings .

artemist commented better svg support overall would be outstanding but , when i say that it might be too large and out of scope , i 'm anticipating that that could be too heavy for jquery to support . so yes , thanks for clarifying , specifically i am asking to add class operations for svg attributes . that , in and of itself would be a huge ux boon and change the way we could handle interaction and svg moving forward .

markelog commented off topic : if we no longer decline patches for svg elements , perhaps , we should remove it from "won't fix " list , otherwise we say one thing but do the opposite . on topic : -1, just like in case of the shadow dom , support of the svg will decrease the performance increase the size and complicate the code . if user operates on svg elements through js , sooner then later their would need more then css -classes - use of special libs is more appropriate way to do this imho .

artemist commented it 's a little disappointing that this is the position taken , as svg is gaining widespread interest and use , and though it isn 't the html dom , svg attributes are still accessible in the dom via vanilla js . most of the tickets shown here are from 2 + years ago .

rwaldron commented off topic : if we no longer decline patches for svg elements , perhaps , we should remove it from "won't fix " list , otherwise we say one thing but do the opposite . but it appears that svg is limited to class support . on topic : -1, just like in case of the shadow dom , support of the svg will decrease the performance increase the size and complicate the code . if user operates on svg elements through js , sooner then later their would need more then css -classes - use of special libs is more appropriate way to do this imho . i 'm with you 100 %

dmethvin commented if you just want class names and we can draw the line there i agree with @gibson042 and have fewer concerns . well we have two ways to do that afaik . one is to switch from the classname property to the class attribute . there 's a patchwelcome feature ticket for that approach , with the idea that we 'd switch all docs to use that approach to avoid forked code paths . another is to support the classlist api , which would have to be implemented in parallel with the existing code since several of our currently supported browsers such as android 2 .3 still do not implement it . there is a pr from @caitp at #1511 which i declined to land specifically because of the concern about svg scope creep . if someone asks for further svg support under the "hey you fixed that so you support svg , you should fix this " guilt trip you 're gonna back us up , right ? :smile_cat: e .g. trac -15156, trac -14517, trac -13754, trac -13231, trac -12667 and much much more .

