xml commented that sounds awesome . yes , the whole validation thing is remarkably complex , and what 's amazing is how transparent and automagical most of it is . if more hands are needed to work on the revisions , i 'm interested , but feel like i may be late to the party .

lastnico commented i do agree with @pkozlowski-opensource (at #1412 (comment)), i would expect such behavior too . how the user could fix a mistake from the model in the form (like a field not matching its pattern ) if he cannot even see what was the previous invalid (non-matching) value (think particularly about patterns added afterwards , while there are already existing data ). and after all , the values should be copied at least once at initialization time from model to input , because , once in inputs , they are going to be checked and will be copied back to model only once they will match the requirement (here: match their related ng -pattern).

mforce commented hi guys any updates on this , this issue is kind of driving me nuts ? i have another simple use case that is affected by this . let 's say one wants a simple way to display the character count of a textbox bound to a model field , if i want to use {{model.length}} the length property doesn 't work since the model is invalid and doesn 't have a value . is there a way to make this feature of the model optional ?

ilovett commented i found the modelvalue being set to undefined after $setvalidity('x', false ) to be quite annoying and unexpected

georgebatalinski commented thank you guys for the contributions and looking at this , there is some awesome answers here - i posted a small post - to explain my approach https ://medium.com/@gbatalinski/save-3-days-of-your-dev-life-date-picker-multi-field-validation-angular-js-validators-f5712a5add4f

pkozlowski -opensource commented hi ! there was a discussion about this on the mailing list : https ://groups.google.com/d/topic/angular/8fk-ya6juzo/discussion it is kind of corner case but i do agree that this is not intuitive . i would expect the data to be displayed and the input / form marked as invalid .

narretz commented @itsleeowen yes , in some cases , but the intention was not to break this use case even further , it was a side effect . the form stuff is currently under heavy scrutiny , so expect changes to that in the future .

narretz commented @itsleeowen do you have a specific example where this happends ?

narretz commented yep , it 's all good now ! 9314719 restored the behvaior of not setting the model to undefined when you set the validity with $setvalidity, so this is also resolved . i 'm not a big fan of this , but hey .

scottywakefield commented @evangalen - that has done the job for me . i want to show invalid phone numbers so that they can be fixed , whilst still enforcing client side validation .

