underbluewaters commented might make sense to add some links here to related accessibility projects . i found this ticket while searching for and finding issue #684.

alienlebarge commented it is certain that "bootstrap" has some lacks for accessibility . one of the first thing to do is to have a correct html code . i have allready identify some problems about it #2326 . i work for a government and accessibility is a key element for us . improved accessibility could be a project for the next release . what do you think ?

fjordaan commented please see the work that jquery ui is doing on accessibility : http ://groups.google.com/group/jquery-a11y/topics e .g. here are accessible implementations by hans hillen of most of the principal widgets : http ://hanshillen.github.com/jqtest/ with details of what changes were made to the original widgets . i would love to see the same improvements and commitment to accessibility in bootstrap .

fat commented i think the approach of having one big "ticket" for accessibility was probably one of my worst . i 'm going to open up new tickets for each interactive js component . also , you can follow along with the accessibility work i 've already started in the accessibility branch . any help would be ammazzzing .... testing , implementation , or simply just schooling me on the matter .

andreatarr commented @jedsundwall yes , i think we 'd be interested in helping with that . when are you thinking of having the challenge ? ideally , we would be merging this in for our beta by the end of july though we 'd have until september to get fixes in . the accessibility issue and lack of rtl support are two things we need feel comfortable that we can solve before we can give the final go ahead .

webhipster commented looking at dojo toolkit 's accessibility implementation for many widgets could help . in all honesty , i 'd like to see a port of bootstrap to dojo . dojo slays !!

alanontheweb commented hi i was just wondering if any progress is being made towards this . accessibility is a big thing at universities and i would love to be able to use all of bootstrap 's js and have it be section 508 compliant . it would really be the ultimate solution . thanks for all your amazing work thus far !

deborahgu commented i would be happy to test (and educate about specific accessibility issues , if you want ), and as i get more comfortable with bootstrap i 'd also be happy to help with the limitation .

jedsundwall commented @andreatarr i 'm considering running a challenge (possibly seeing if we can partner with some govt agencies and get it on http ://challenge.gov/) later this year to create an accessible version of bootstrap “ or just take @fat's approach and write a plugin to make bootstrap accessible . would joomla be willing to work with us on that ?

mgifford commented what would be even better than awesome (going back to the first comment ) is if accessibility support was just built in by default . as @gagarine says , accessibility should not be optional . maybe you can opt out for ultra performance , but it should be the norm for the vast majority of folks using this framework .

