mattjmorrison commented +1 @nragaz

cleentfaar commented +madisona that doesn 't remove the effect , only makes it behave as if it wasn 't there (i.e. transparent ). and as a side note , i was stunned by the appearant disregard of continuing bootstrap 's (re)usability, not the fact that they do something for only one person . i don 't see a problem with the latter if the request is reasonable . it 's the implementation of the issue i find lacking . oh and about constructive requests , i must be a real degenerate but if i read the comments above (dating back more then 2 months ago ), nothing will get faster with nice fluffy questions either i do agree about the negativity i used to show my frustration ; removed

windock commented maybe we need to open another issue with feature request to remove hover effect ? developers seem to be willing to implement features .

trisweb commented +1 @nragaz

imtapps commented also agree with @nragaz... i personally very much dislike the effect and would rather see it as an "opt in " kind of option .

justin808 commented on apr 19 , 2012 i copied the table definitions from .table to .table-no-hover and i use that for now . hopefully , i can remove that in the future .

cleentfaar commented "all bootstrap needs is a small spot in the docs describing how to customize /remove the hover effect ." not really , all it needs is a small spot in the docs on how to enable them , since they should be disabled by default . and of course it must be true that the goal of a framework is to 'alert the webmaster about something he may not even need in the first place '... i guess there goes your 'custom overriding effect ' argument ... (flushes toilet ) but i was amused by your comment that it takes good web designers to know how to do this , and - even funnier - that this is actually what is good about bootstrap ? you mean the requirement for good webdesigners itself makes it a good framework ? solely that , huh ? wow that 's some ignorance for ya right there . bootstrap is great , and i love using it , but it 's these blatantly ignorant comments that i can 't stand . your logic is everyone 's logic , huh ?. get out of your box for crying out loud ! there are plenty of suggestions mentioned already and , like most responders , you don 't seem to realize that the problem is that the hover -effect is in there by default , not that we don 't know how to remove it . you must be thinking ; "...why would anyone remove the problem when you can just do a quickfix ? it 's faster , costs less energy , and we 're lazy as (...), so it must be better ..." now make no mistake , we know of course how to fix these things temporarily . but , us cavemen got all funny and silly and just wanted to remove the problem entirely . what a bunch of strange and deluded people are we , huh ? it must feel very alien to you .

cleentfaar commented hey , i guess we are all different huh . be it one sentence , or the whole bible ; if something itches me , i 'll let you know . but in response ; if there is something you don 't like , you have to make your own ? why not raise an issue and hope developers will agree and change the source ?. i 'm sure you think it 's the same , but for me it 's not . adding something and telling how to remove it is not the same as the other way around . why , you ask ... well the effect added here changes the interaction with the user , specifically when hovering over a table row . this is (i hope you agree ) something you don 't want to have by default . you only want to change visual representation when you choose to do so , not because an update in bootstrap forced you to make a special css rule to circumvent an effect that should not be default anyway . i hope that was more clear , less sarcastic , and my final waste of energy on this issue .

ryanscottlewis commented i 'm more thinking "why did this guy take one sentence so seriously ?". never meant to light any fires , i won 't say anything other than "+1" from now on . =) didn 't mean to sound like i 'm smarter than any of you fine fellows . i 'm definitely not . but honestly , having the effect by default and including a spot in the docs describing how to customize /remove the hover effect is exactly the same as not having the effect and including a spot in the docs describing how to add the hover effect . it 's all opinion . don 't like it ? fork it .

chhuang commented as a temporary and not semantic solution , you can try to put your rows inside <thead> if you don 't want the hover effect .

